### HarperDB 4.3.0, Tucker Release
1/10/2024

### Relationships and Joins

HarperDB now supports defining relationships between tables. These relationships can be defined as one-to-many or many-to-one, and use a foreign key to record the relationship between records from different tables. An example of how to use this to define a many-to-one relationship between a product and brand table:
```graphql
type Product @table {
	id: ID @primaryKey
	name: String @indexed
	# foreign key used to reference a brand
	brandId: ID @indexed
	# many-to-one relationship to brand
	brand: Related @relation(from: "brandId") 
}
type Brand @table {
	id: ID @primaryKey
	name: String @indexed
	# one-to-many relationship of brand to products of that brand
	products: Product @relation(to: "brandId")
}
```
This relationships model can be used in queries and selects, which will automatically "join" the data from the tables. For example, you could search for products by brand name:
```http
/Product?brand.name=Microsoft
```

HarperDB now also supports querying with a sort order nested selects. For example:
```http
/Product?brand.name=Microsoft&sort(price)&select(name,brand{name,size})
```

#### 

### Indexing Nulls
New tables and indexes now support indexing null values, enabling queries by null (as well as queries for non-null values). For example, you can query by nulls with the REST interface:
```http
GET /Table/?attribute=null
```
Note, that existing indexes will remain without null value indexing, and can only support indexing/querying by nulls if they are rebuilt (removed and re-added).

### CLI Expansion

The HarperDB now supports an expansive set of commands that execute operations from the operations API. For example, you can list users from the command line:
```bash
harperdb list_users
```

### BigInt Support

HarperDB now supports `BigInt` attributes/values with integers (with full precision) up to 1000 bits (or 10^301). These can be used as primary keys or standard attributes, and can be used in queries or other operations. Within JSON documents, you can simply use standard JSON integer numbers with up to 300 digits, and large BigInt integers will be returned as standard JSON numbers.

### Local Studio Upgrade
HarperDB has upgraded the local studio to match the same version that is offered on http://studio.harperdb.io.