# 4.5.0

#### HarperDB 4.5.0

2/?/2025

### Blob Storage
4.5 introduces a new [Blob storage system](../../reference/blob.md), that is designed to efficiently handle large binary objects, with built-in support for streaming large content/media in and out of storage. This provides significantly better performance and functionality for large unstructured data, such as HTML, images, video, and other large files. Components can leverage this functionality through the JavaScript `Blob` interface, and the new `createBlob` function. Blobs are fully replicated and integrated.

### Password Hashing Upgrade
4.5 adds two new password hashing algorithms for better security (to replace md5):
`sha256`: This is a solid general purpose of password hashing, with good security properties and excellent performance. This is the default algorithm in 4.5.
`argon2id`: This provides the highest level of security, and is the recommended algorithm that do not require frequent password verifications. However, it is more CPU intensive, and may not be suitable for  environments with a high frequency of password verifications.

### Resource and Storage Analytics
4.5 includes numerous new analytics for resources and storage, including page faults, context switches, free space, disk usage, and other metrics.

#### Default Replication Port
The default port for replication has been changed from 9925 to 9933.

### Property Forwarding
Accessing record properties from resource instances should be accessible through standard property access syntax, regardless of whether the property was declared in a schema. Previously only properties declared in a schema were accessible through standard property access syntax. This change allows for more consistent and intuitive access to record properties, regardless of how they were defined. It is still recommended to declare properties in a schema for better performance and documentation. 

### Cluster Status Information
The [`cluster_status` operation](../../../developers/operations-api/clustering.md) now includes new statistics for replication, including the timestamps of last received transactions, sent transactions, and committed transactions.

### URL id.property handling
The `id.property` syntax for accessing properties in URLs will only be applied to properties that are declared in a schema. This allows for URLs to generally include dots in paths without being interpreted as property access.

### HTTP/2
HarperDB now supports HTTP/2 for all API endpoints. This can be enabled with the `http2` option in the configuration file.