### HarperDB 1.1.0, Alby Release

4/18/2018

**Features**

- Users & Roles:
  - Limit/Assign access to all HarperDB operations

  - Limit/Assign access to schemas, tables & attributes

  - Limit/Assign access to specific SQL operations (`INSERT`, `UPDATE`, `DELETE`, `SELECT`)

- Enhanced SQL parser
  - Added extensive ANSI SQL Support.
  - Added Array function, which allows for converting relational data into Object/Hierarchical data
  - `Distinct_Array` Function: allows for removing duplicates in the Array function.
  - Enhanced SQL Validation: Improved validation around structure of SQL, validating the schema, etc..
  - 10x performance improvement on SQL statements.

- Export Function: can now call a NoSQL/SQL search and have it export to CSV or JSON.

- Added upgrade function to CLI

- Added ability to perform bulk update from CSV

- Created landing page for HarperDB.

- Added CORS support to HarperDB

**Fixes**

- Fixed memory leak in CSV bulk loads

- Corrected error when attempting to perform a `SQL DELETE`

- Added further validation to NoSQL `UPDATE` to validate schema & table exist

- Fixed install issue occurring when part of the install path does not exist, the install would silently fail.

- Fixed issues with replicated data when one of the replicas is down

- Removed logging of initial user’s credentials during install

- Can now use reserved words as aliases in SQL

- Removed user(s) password in results when calling `list_users`

- Corrected forwarding of operations to other nodes in a cluster

- Corrected lag in schema meta-data passing to other nodes in a cluster

- Drop table & schema now move the table & schema or table to the trash folder under the Database folder for later permanent deletion.

- Bulk inserts no longer halt the entire operation if n records already exist, instead the return includes the hashes of records that have been skipped.

- Added ability to accept EULA from command line

- Corrected `search_by_value` not searching on the correct attribute

- Added ability to increase the timeout of a request by adding `SERVER_TIMEOUT_MS` to config/settings.js

- Add error handling resulting from SQL calculations.

- Standardized error responses as JSON.

- Corrected internal process generation to not allow more processes than machine has cores.
