### HarperDB 1.2.0, Alby Release

7/10/2018

**Features**

- Time to Live: Conserve the resources of your edge device by setting data on devices to live for a specific period of time.
- Geo: HarperDB has implemented turf.js into its SQL parser to enable geo based analytics.
- Jobs: CSV Data loads, Exports & Time to Live now all run as back ground jobs.
- Exports: Perform queries that export into JSON or CSV and save to disk or S3.

**Fixes**

- Fixed issue where CSV data loads incorrectly report number of records loaded.
- Added validation to stop `BETWEEN` operations in SQL.
- Updated logging to not include internal variables in the logs.
- Cleaned up `add_role` response to not include internal variables.
- Removed old and unused dependencies.
- Build out further unit tests and integration tests.
- Fixed https to handle certificates properly.
- Improved stability of clustering & replication.
- Corrected issue where Objects and Arrays were not casting properly in `SQL SELECT` response.
- Fixed issue where Blob text was not being returned from `SQL SELECT`s.
- Fixed error being returned when querying on table with no data, now correctly returns empty array.
- Improved performance in SQL when searching on exact values.
- Fixed error when ./harperdb stop is called.
- Fixed logging issue causing instability in installer.
- Fixed `read_log` operation to accept date time.
- Added permissions checking to `export_to_s3`.
- Added ability to run SQL on `SELECT` without a `FROM`.
- Fixed issue where updating a user’s password was not encrypting properly.
- Fixed `user_guide.html` to point to readme on git repo.
- Created option to have HarperDB run as a foreground process.
- Updated `user_info` to return the correct role for a user.
- Fixed issue where HarperDB would not stop if the database root was deleted.
- Corrected error message on insert if an invalid schema is provided.
- Added permissions checks for user & role operations.
