---
title: 4.0.0
sidebar_position: 59999
---

### HarperDB 4.0.0, Tucker Release

11/2/2022

**Networking & Data Replication (Clustering)**

The HarperDB clustering internals have been rewritten and the underlying technology for Clustering has been completely replaced with [NATS](https:/nats.io/), an enterprise grade connective technology responsible for addressing, discovery and exchanging of messages that drive the common patterns in distributed systems.

- CORE-1464, CORE-1470, : Remove SocketCluster dependencies and all code related to them.
- CORE-1465, CORE-1485, CORE-1537, CORE-1538, CORE-1558, CORE-1583, CORE_1665, CORE-1710, CORE-1801, CORE-1865 :Add nats-`server` code as dependency, on install of HarperDB download nats-`server` is possible else fallback to building from source code.
- CORE-1593, CORE-1761: Add `nats.js` as project dependency.
- CORE-1466: Build NATS configs on `harperdb run` based on HarperDB YAML configuration.
- CORE-1467, CORE-1508: Launch and manage NATS servers with PM2.
- CORE-1468, CORE-1507: Create a process which reads the work queue stream and processes transactions.
- CORE-1481, CORE-1529, CORE-1698, CORE-1502, CORE-1696: On upgrade to 4.0, update pre-existing clustering configurations, create table transaction streams, create work queue stream, update `hdb_nodes` table, create clustering folder structure, and rebuild self-signed certs.
- CORE-1494, CORE-1521, CORE-1755: Build out internals to interface with NATS.
- CORE-1504: Update existing hooks to save transactions to work with NATS.
- CORE-1514, CORE-1515, CORE-1516, CORE-1527, CORE-1532: Update `add_node`, `update_node`, and `remove_node` operations to no longer need host and port in payload. These operations now manage dynamically sourcing of table level transaction streams between nodes and work queues.
- CORE-1522: Create `NATSReplyService` process which handles the receiving NATS based requests from remote instances and sending back appropriate responses.
- CORE-1471, CORE-1568, CORE-1563, CORE-1534, CORE-1569: Update `cluster_status` operation.
- CORE-1611: Update pre-existing transaction log operations to be audit log operations.
- CORE-1541, CORE-1612, CORE-1613: Create translation log operations which interface with streams.
- CORE-1668: Update NATS serialization / deserialization to use MessagePack.
- CORE-1673: Add `system_info` param to `hdb_nodes` table and update on `add_node` and `cluster_status`.
- CORE-1477, CORE-1493, CORE-1557, CORE-1596, CORE-1577: Both a full HarperDB restart & just clustering restart call the NATS server with a reload directive to maintain full uptime while servers refresh.
- CORE-1474:HarperDB install adds clustering folder structure.
- CORE-1530: Post `drop_table` HarperDB purges the related transaction stream.
- CORE-1567: Set NATS config to always use TLS.
- CORE-1543: Removed the `transact_to_cluster` attribute from the bulk load operations. Now bulk loads always replicate.
- CORE-1533, CORE-1556, CORE-1561, CORE-1562, CORE-1564: New operation `configure_cluster`, this operation enables bulk publishing and subscription of multiple tables to multiple instances of HarperDB.
- CORE-1535: Create work queue stream on install of HarperDB. This stream receives transactions from remote instances of HarperDB which are then ingested in order.
- CORE-1551: Create transaction streams on the remote node if they do not exist when performing `add_node` or `update_node`.
- CORE-1594, CORE-1605, CORE-1749, CORE-1767, CORE-1770: Optimize the work queue stream and its consumer to be more performant and validate exact once delivery.
- CORE-1621, CORE-1692, CORE-1570, CORE-1693: NATS stream names are MD5 hashed to avoid characters that HarperDB allows, but NATS may not.
- CORE-1762: Add a new optional attribute to `add_node` and `update_node` named `opt_start_time`. This attribute sets a starting time to start synchronizing transactions.
- CORE-1785: Optimizations and bug fixes in regards to sourcing data from remote instances on HarperDB.
- CORE-1588: Created new operation `set_cluster_routes` to enable setting routes for instances of HarperDB to mesh together.
- CORE-1589: Created new operation `get_cluster_routes` to allow for retrieval of routes used to connect the instance of HarperDB to the mesh.
- CORE-1590: Created new operation `delete_cluster_routes` to allow for removal of routes used to connect the instance of HarperDB to the mesh.
- CORE-1667: Fix old environment variable `CLUSTERING_PORT` not mapping to new hub server port.
- CORE-1609: Allow `remove_node` to be called when the other node cannot be reached.
- CORE-1815: Add transaction lock to `add_node` and `update_node` to avoid concurrent nats source update bug.
- CORE-1848: Update stream configs if the node name has been changed in the YAML configuration.
- CORE-1873: Update `add_node` and `update_node` so that it auto-creates schema/table on both local and remote node respectively

**Data Storage**

We have made improvements to how we store, index, and retrieve data.

- CORE-1619: Enabled new concurrent flushing technology for improved write performance.
- CORE-1701: Optimize search performance for `search_by_conditions` when executing multiple AND conditions.
- CORE-1652: Encode the values of secondary indices more efficiently for faster access.
- CORE-1670: Store updated timestamp in `lmdb.js`' version property.
- CORE-1651: Enabled multiple value indexing of array values which allows for the ability to search on specific elements in an array more efficiently.
- CORE-1649, CORE-1659: Large text values (larger than 255 bytes) are no longer stored in separate blob index. Now they are segmented and delimited in the same index to increase search performance.
- Complex objects and object arrays are no longer stored in a separate index to preserve storage and increase write throughput.
- CORE-1650, CORE-1724, CORE-1738: Improved internals around interpreting attribute values.
- CORE-1657: Deferred property decoding allows large objects to be stored, but individual attributes can be accessed (like with get_attributes) without incurring the cost of decoding the entire object.
- CORE-1658: Enable in-memory caching of records for even faster access to frequently accessed data.
- CORE-1693: Wrap updates in async transactions to ensure ACID-compliant updates.
- CORE-1653: Upgrade to 4.0 rebuilds tables to reflect changes made to index improvements.
- CORE-1753: Removed old `node-lmdb` dependency.
- CORE-1787: Freeze objects returned from queries.
- CORE-1821: Read the `WRITE_ASYNC` setting which enables LMDB nosync.

**Logging**

HarperDB has increased logging specificity by breaking out logs based on components logging. There are specific log files each for HarperDB Core, Custom Functions, Hub Server, Leaf Server, and more.

- CORE-1497: Remove `pino` and `winston` dependencies.
- CORE-1426: All logging is output via `stdout` and `stderr`, our default logging is then picked up by PM2 which handles writing out to file.
- CORE-1431: Improved `read_log` operation validation.
- CORE-1433, CORE-1463: Added log rotation.
- CORE-1553, CORE-1555, CORE-1552, CORE-1554, CORE-1704: Performance gain by only serializing objects and arrays if the log is for the level defined in configuration.
- CORE-1436: Upgrade to 4.0 updates internals for logging changes.
- CORE-1428, CORE-1440, CORE-1442, CORE-1434, CORE-1435, CORE-1439, CORE-1482, CORE-1751, CORE-1752: Bug fixes, performance improvements and improved unit tests.
- CORE-1691: Convert non-PM2 managed log file writes to use Node.js `fs.appendFileSync` function.

**Configuration**

HarperDB has updated its configuration from a properties file to YAML.

- CORE-1448, CORE-1449, CORE-1519, CORE-1587: Upgrade automatically converts the pre-existing settings file to YAML.
- CORE-1445, CORE-1534, CORE-1444, CORE-1858: Build out new logic to create, update, and interpret the YAML configuration file.
- Installer has updated prompts to reflect YAML settings.
- CORE-1447: Create an alias for the `configure_cluster` operation as `set_configuration`.
- CORE-1461, CORE-1462, CORE-1483: Unit test improvements.
- CORE-1492: Improvements to get_configuration and set_configuration operations.
- CORE-1503: Modify HarperDB configuration for more granular certificate definition.
- CORE-1591: Update `routes` IP param to `host` and to `leaf` config in `harperdb.conf`
- CORE-1519: Fix issue when switching between old and new versions of HarperDB we are getting the config parameter is undefined error on npm install.

**Broad NodeJS and Platform Support**

- CORE-1624: HarperDB can now run on multiple versions of NodeJS, from v14 to v19. We primarily test on v18, so that is the preferred version.

**Windows 10 and 11**

- CORE-1088: HarperDB now runs natively on Windows 10 and 11 without the need to run in a container or installed in WSL. Windows is only intended for evaluation and development purposes, not for production work loads.

**Extra Changes and Bug Fixes**

- CORE-1520: Refactor installer to remove all waterfall code and update to use Promises.
- CORE-1573: Stop the PM2 daemon and any logging processes when stopping hdb.
- CORE-1586: When HarperDB is running in foreground stop any additional logging processes from being spawned.
- CORE-1626: Update docker file to accommodate new `harperdb.conf` file.
- CORE-1592, CORE-1526, CORE-1660, CORE-1646, CORE-1640, CORE-1689, CORE-1711, CORE-1601, CORE-1726, CORE-1728, CORE-1736, CORE-1735, CORE-1745, CORE-1729, CORE-1748, CORE-1644, CORE-1750, CORE-1757, CORE-1727, CORE-1740, CORE-1730, CORE-1777, CORE-1778, CORE-1782, CORE-1775, CORE-1771, CORE-1774, CORE-1759, CORE-1772, CORE-1861, CORE-1862, CORE-1863, CORE-1870, CORE-1869:Changes for CI/CD pipeline and integration tests.
- CORE-1661: Fixed issue where old boot properties file caused an error when attempting to install 4.0.0.
- CORE-1697, CORE-1814, CORE-1855: Upgrade fastify dependency to new major version 4.
- CORE-1629: Jobs are now running as processes managed by the PM2 daemon.
- CORE-1733: Update LICENSE to reflect our EULA on our site.
- CORE-1606: Enable Custom Functions by default.
- CORE-1714: Include pre-built binaries for most common platforms (darwin-arm64, darwin-x64, linux-arm64, linux-x64, win32-x64).
- CORE-1628: Fix issue where setting license through environment variable not working.
- CORE-1602, CORE-1760, CORE-1838, CORE-1839, CORE-1847, CORE-1773: HarperDB Docker container improvements.
- CORE-1706: Add support for encoding HTTP responses with MessagePack.
- CORE-1709: Improve the way lmdb.js dependencies are installed.
- CORE-1758: Remove/update unnecessary HTTP headers.
- CORE-1756: On `npm install` and `harperdb install` change the node version check from an error to a warning if the installed Node.js version does not match our preferred version.
- CORE-1791: Optimizations to authenticated user caching.
- CORE-1794: Update README to discuss Windows support & Node.js versions
- CORE-1837: Fix issue where Custom Function directory was not being created on install.
- CORE-1742: Add more validation to audit log - check schema/table exists and log is enabled.
- CORE-1768: Fix issue where when running in foreground HarperDB process is not stopping on `harperdb stop`.
- CORE-1864: Fix to semver checks on upgrade.
- CORE-1850: Fix issue where a `cluster_user` type role could not be altered.
