### HarperDB 4.2.0 Beta

*This is an beta release, please be aware that we are actively testing and refining this release. See status section for more information on the current progress.*

HarperDB 4.2 introduces a new interface to accessing our core database engine with faster access, well-typed idiomatic JavaScript interfaces, ergnomic object mapping, and real-time data subscriptions. 4.2 also had adopted a new component architecture for building extensions to deliver customized external data sources, authentication, file handlers, content types, and more. These architectural upgrades lead to several key new HarperDB capabilities including a new REST interface, advanced caching, real-time messaging and publish/subscribe functionality through MQTT, WebSockets, and Server-Sent Events.

4.2 also introduces configurable database schemas, using GraphQL Schema syntax. The new component structure is also configuration-driven, providing easy, low-code paths to building applications. [Check out our new getting starting guide](../../getting-started/getting-started.md) to see how easy it is get started with HarperDB apps.

## Resource API
The [Resource API](../../reference/resource.md) is the new interface for accessing data in HarperDB. It utilizes a uniform interface for accessing data in HarperDB database/tables and is designed to easily be implemented or extended for defining customized application logic for table access or defining custom external data sources. This API has support for connecting resources together for caching and delivering data change and message notifications in real-time. The [Resource API documentation details this interface](../../reference/resource.md).

## Component Architecture
HarperDB's custom functions have evolved towards a [full component architecture](../../components/README.md); our internal functionality is defined as components, and this can be used in a modular way in conjunction with user components. These can all easily be configured and loaded through configuration files, and there is now a [well-defined interface for creating your own components](../../components/writing-extensions.md). Components can easily be deployed/installed into HarperDB using [NPM and Github references as well](../../components/installing.md).

## Configurable Schemas
HarperDB applications or components support [schema definitions using GraphQL schema syntax](../../applications/defining-schemas.md). This makes it easy to define your table and attribute structure and gives you control over which attributes should be indexed and what types they should be. With schemas in configuration, these schemas can bundled with an application and deployed together with application code.

## REST Interface
HarperDB 4.2 introduces new REST interface for accessing data through best-practice HTTP APIs using intuitive paths and standards-based methods and headers that directly map to our Resource API. This new interface provides fast and easy access to data via queries through GET requests, modifications of data through PUTs, customized actions through POSTs and more. With standards-based header support built-in, this works seamlessly with external caches (including browser caches) for accelerated performance and reduced network transfers.

# Real-Time
HarperDB 4.2 now provides standard interfaces for subscribing to data changes and receiving notifications of changes and messages in real-time. Using these new real-time messaging capabilities with structured data provides a powerful integrated platform for both database style data updates and querying along with message delivery. [Real-time messaging](../../real-time/README.md) of data is available through several protocols:

### MQTT
4.2 now includes MQTT support which is a publish and subscribe messaging protocol, designed for efficiency (designed to be efficient enough for even small Internet of Things devices). This allows clients to connect to HarperDB and publish messages through our data center and subscribe to messages and data for real-time delivery. 4.2 implements support for QoS 0 and 1, along with durable sessions.

### WebSockets
HarperDB now also supports WebSockets. This can be used as a transport for MQTT or as a connection for custom connection handling.

### Server-Sent Events
HarperDB also includes support for Server-Sent Events. This is a very easy-to-use browser API that allows web sites/applications to connect to HarperDB and subscribe to data changes with minimal effort over standard HTTP.

## Clone Node
HarperDB includes new functionality for adding new HarperDB nodes in a cluster. New instances can be configured to clone from a leader node, performing and copying a database snapshot from a leader node, and self-configuring from the leader node as well, to facilitate accelerated deployment of new nodes for fast horizontal scaling to meet demand needs. [See the documentation on Clone Node for more information.](../../administration/cloning.md)

## Operations API terminology updates
Any operation that used the `schema` property was updated to make this property optional and alternately support `database` as the property for specifying the database (formerly 'schema').
If both `schema` and `database` are absent, operation defaults to using the `data` database. 
Term 'primary key' now used in place of 'hash'. noSQL operation `search_by_hash` updated to `search_by_id`.


## Configuration
`harperdb-config.yaml` has had some configuration values added, removed, renamed and defaults changed.
* `operationsApi.foreground` was removed. To start HarperDB in the foreground, from the CLI run `harperdb`.
* `clustering.republishMessages` now defaults to `false`.
* Made `operationsApi` configuration optional. Any config not defined here will default to the `http` section.
* Added a `securePort` parameter used for setting the https port.
* Added a new top level `tls` section.
* Broke out the `customFunction` configuration into the `http` and `tls` sections.
* Removed `customFunctions.enabled`, `customFunctions.network.https`, `operationsApi.network.https` and `operationsApi.nodeEnv`
* Added a element called `componentRoot` which replaces `customFunctions.root`.
* Updated custom pathing to use `databases` instead of `schemas`.

## Beta Status (Current Progress)
This is beta release software; it is still in development with active testing. Most of the functionality in this release is working in its primary use cases, but there are many edge cases to test and refinements to finish. Here are a list of the major development works in progress:
* Components - Installation of components from different sources is functional, but continuing to be refined.
* Operations - New operations will be added with updated terminology.
* Schema - Directives are being refined and may be updated.
* Validation - Many of the new capabilities do not have complete validation and incorrect usage may yield low level error messages.