### HarperDB 3.0, Monkey Release
5/18/2021

**Features/Updates**

* CORE-1217, CORE-1226, CORE-1232 Create new `search_by_conditions` operation. 
* CORE-1304 Upgrade to Node 12.22.1. 
* CORE-1235 Adds new upgrade/install functionality. 
* CORE-1206, CORE-1248, CORE-1252 Implement `lmdb-store` library for optimized performance. 
* CORE-1062 Added alias operation for `delete_files_before`, named `delete_records_before`. 
* CORE-1243 Change `HTTPS_ON` settings value to false by default. 
* CORE-1189 Implement fastify web server, resulting in improved performance. 
* CORE-1221 Update user API to use role name instead of role id. 
* CORE-1225 Updated dependencies to eliminate npm security warnings. 
* CORE-1241 Adds 3.0 update directive and refactors/fixes update functionality.

**Bug Fixes**

* CORE-1299 Remove all references to the `PROJECT_DIR` setting. This setting is problematic when using node version managers and upgrading the version of node and then installing a new instance of HarperDB. 
* CORE-1288 Fix bug with drop table/schema that was causing 'env required' error log. 
* CORE-1285 Update warning log when trying to create an attribute that already exists. 
* CORE-1254 Added logic to manage data collisions in clustering. 
* CORE-1212 Add pre-check to `drop_user` that returns error if user doesn't exist. 
* CORE-1114 Update response code and message from `add_user` when user already exists. 
* CORE-1111 Update response from `create_attribute` to match the create schema/table response. 
* CORE-1205 Fixed bug that prevented schema/table from being dropped if name was a number or had a wildcard value in it. Updated validation for insert, upsert and update.