---
title: 2.1.1
sidebar_position: 79898
---

### HarperDB 2.1.1, Penny Release
05/22/2020

**Highlights**

* CORE-1007 Added the ability to perform `SQL INSERT` & `UPDATE` with function calls & expressions on values. 
* CORE-1023 Fixed minor bug in final SQL step incorrectly trying to translate ordinals to alias in `ORDER BY` statement. 
* CORE-1020 Fixed bug allowing 'null' and 'undefined' string values to be passed in as valid hash values. 
* CORE-1006 Added SQL functionality that enables `JOIN` statements across different schemas. 
* CORE-1005 Implemented JSONata library to handle our JSON document search functionality in SQL, creating the `SEARCH_JSON` function. 
* CORE-1009 Updated schema validation to allow all printable ASCII characters to be used in schema/table/attribute names, except, forward slashes and backticks. Same rules apply now for hash attribute values. 
* CORE-1003  Fixed handling of ORDER BY statements with function aliases. 
* CORE-1004  Fixed bug related to `SELECT*`  on `JOIN` queries with table columns with the same name. 
* CORE-996  Fixed an issue where the `transact_to_cluster` flag is lost for CSV URL loads, fixed an issue where new attributes created in CSV bulk load do not sync to the cluster. 
* CORE-994 Added new operation `system_information`. This operation returns info & metrics for the OS, time, memory, cpu, disk, network. 
* CORE-993  Added new custom date functions for AlaSQL & UTC updates. 
* CORE-991  Changed jobs to spawn a new process which will run the intended job without impacting a main HarperDB process. 
* CORE-992   HTTPS enabled by default. 
* CORE-990  Updated `describe_table` to add the record count for the table for LMDB data storage. 
* CORE-989  Killed the socket cluster processes prior to HarperDB processes to eliminate a false uptime. 
* CORE-975 Updated time values set by SQL Date Functions to be in epoch format. 
* CORE-974  Added date functions to `SQL SELECT` column alias functionality.